rate limits documentation (#2229)
buildkite/docs: pages/apis/graphql/graphql_resource_limits.md

# GraphQL resource limits

> To ensure that Buildkite stays stable for everyone, we have set some limits on our GraphQL API. These limits prevent excessive or abusive calls to our servers while still allowing API users to use GraphQL endpoints in a wide range of ways.

Author: Good point! I like the suggestion!

> To make sure that Buildkite stays stable for everyone, we have set some limits on our GraphQL API. These limits prevent excessive or abusive calls to our servers while still allowing API users to use GraphQL endpoints in a wide range of ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that Buildkite stays stable for everyone, we have set some limits on our GraphQL API. These limits prevent excessive or abusive calls to our servers while still allowing API users to use GraphQL endpoints in a wide range of ways.
```

> Our limits are based on the complexity of the query. We calculate complexity based requested resources of the query and encourage developers to responsibly use techniques for limiting calls, pagination, caching and retrying requests to lower the complexity of the queries.

Reviewer: Is there meant to be an on in here?

```suggestion
Our limits are based on the complexity of the query. We calculate complexity based on requested resources of the query and encourage developers to responsibly use techniques for limiting calls, pagination, caching and retrying requests to lower the complexity of the queries.
```

## Query complexity
Every field type in the schema has an integer cost assigned to it. The cost of the query is the sum of the cost of each field. Usually, running the query is the best way to know the true cost of the query.

A cost is based on what the field returns.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalar</td>
    <td>0 complexity point</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Enum</td>
    <td>0 complexity point</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Object</td>
    <td>1 complexity point</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Interface</td>
    <td>1 complexity point</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Union</td>
    <td>1 complexity point</td>
  </tr>

> </table>

Author: I had that initially but the table width looked funny to me. I'm happy to merge the change though.

> Although these default costs are in place, Buildkite reserves the right to set manual costs to individual fields.

Author: I think the second option makes more sense

> Although these default costs are in place, Buildkite also reserves the right to set manual costs to individual fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although these default costs are in place, Buildkite reserves the right to set manual costs to individual fields.
```

## Complexity calculation

Buildkite calculates the cost of the query before and after the query execution.

> ### Requested complexity

Reviewer 2: Markdown style:

```suggestion
### Requested complexity

```

> The requested complexity is based on the number of fields and objects requested. Usually, requesting a deeply nested query or excluding pagination details from connections results in high requested complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requested complexity is calculated based on the number of fields and objects requested. Usually, requesting a deeply nested query or excluding pagination details from connections results in high requested complexity.
```

A simple query like the following would incur more than 500 requested complexity points as the query asks for 503 possible resources.

```graphql
query RecentPipelineSlugs {
  organization(slug: "organization-slug") {  # 1 point
    pipelines(first: 500) {                  # 1 point
      edges {                                # 1 point
        node {                               # 500 points
          slug                               # 0 point
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Actual complexity

> The actual complexity is based on the results returned after the query execution, since the connection fields can return fewer nodes than requested. Lowering requested complexity usually lowers the actual complexity of queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual complexity is based on the results returned after the query execution, since the connection fields can return fewer nodes than requested. Lowering the requested complexity usually lowers the actual complexity of queries.
```

Taking the same query as above, if the organization has only 10 pipelines, the actual complexity will be around 13.

```graphql
query RecentPipelineSlugs {
  organization(slug: "organization-slug") {  # 1 point
    pipelines(first: 500) {                  # 1 point
      edges {                                # 1 point
        node {                               # 10 points
          slug                               # 0 point
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- How to show example -->

> 

Author: Ah nice catch. Probably artefacts from the draft

## Rate limits

> Buildkite has implemented two distinct limits to our GraphQL endpoints. These limits play a critical role in ensuring that our platform operates smoothly and efficiently, while also minimising the risk of unnecessary downtime or system failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Buildkite has implemented two distinct limits to our GraphQL endpoints. These limits play a critical role in ensuring that our platform operates smoothly and efficiently, while minimising the risk of unnecessary downtime or system failures.
```

By enforcing these limits, we can effectively manage and allocate the necessary resources for our GraphQL endpoints.

### Single query limit

Buildkite's API has a requested complexity limit of 50,000 for each individual query. This limit is enforced prior to query execution. The intention of this limit is to prevent users from requesting an excessive number of resources in a single query.

As a best practice, we recommend breaking up queries into smaller, more manageable chunks and utilizing pagination to navigate through the resulting list, rather than relying on a single large query.

If the query exceeds the limit, the response will return HTTP 200 status code with the following error.

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {

>       "message": "Query has complexity of 251503, which exceeds max complexity of 50000"

Author: Probably by both - We render numbers without commas in API responses in few other places so it should be okay here.

    }
  ]
}
```

### Time based rate limit

> To ensure optimal performance, an organization can use up to 20,000 actual complexity points within a 5 minute period. By allowing a set number of actual complexity points, we provide organizations flexibility to run query of different sizes within a 5 minute window.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ensure optimal performance, an organization can use up to 20,000 actual complexity points within a 5 minute period. By allowing a set number of actual complexity points, we provide organizations flexibility to run queries of different sizes within a 5 minute window.
```

> To ensure optimal performance, an organization can use up to 20,000 actual complexity points within a 5 minute period. By allowing a set number of actual complexity points, we provide organizations flexibility to run queries of different sizes within a 5 minute window.

Reviewer: I know we've talked about it before, but with a requested complexity limit of 50K and an Actual of 20K over 5 minutes, the first query can use 50K points and then subsequent queries will fail, is that correct?

Author: Yup!

> As a best practice, we recommend utilising client size strategies like caching to lower the number of API calls, queues to schedule API calls or proper use of pagination to only request necessary data to manage time based rate limits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a best practice, we recommend utilizing client size strategies like caching to lower the number of API calls, queues to schedule API calls or proper use of pagination to only request necessary data to manage time based rate limits.
```

If an organization exceeds the 20,000 points limit, the response will return HTTP 429 status code with the following error.

```json
{
    "errors": [
        {
            "message": "Your organization has exceeded the limit of 20000 complexity points. Please try again in 187 seconds."
        }
    ]
}
```

## Accessing limits details

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be good to have a sentence between these headings. Is there something you think would fit well there?

> 

Author: What do you think of this?

```
You can access both time-based limits and query complexity information through the APIs. Accessing these limit details will not incur any additional complexity points.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Yip, that's great! Nice context about not costing additional complexity points.

I think s/APIs/API, though.

> ### HTTP headers

Author: Good point - What about `Accessing time based limits details` and `Viewing query complexity`

> ### HTTP headers

Author: How about `Check time based limits` and `View query complexity`?

We provide rate limit status on response headers of each GraphQL call. We have 3 rate limit related headers

```js
RateLimit-Remaining: 20

> RateLimit-Limit: 10000

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
RateLimit-Limit: 20000
```

RateLimit-Reset: 120
```

`RateLimit-Remaining` provides the remaining complexity left within the current time window.  
`RateLimit-Limit` is the complexity limit for the time window.  

> `RateLimit-Limit` is the number of seconds remaining until a new time window is started and the limits are reset.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`RateLimit-Reset` is the number of seconds remaining until a new time window is started and the limits are reset.  
```

### Response body

You can include the header  `Buildkite-Include-Query-Stats` to the GraphQL request, which will return the complexity data along with the GraphQL response.

```json
{
  "data" : {
    "organization": {
      "name": "Buildkite"
    }
  },
  "stats" : {
    "requestedComplexity": 1910,
    "actualComplexity": 550
  }
}
```

## Best practices to avoid rate limit errors

Designing your client application with best practices in mind is the best way to avoid throttling errors. For example, you can stagger API requests in a queue and do other processing tasks while waiting for the next queued job to run.  

Consider the following best practices when designing the app:

> * Optimize the request by only requesting data your app requires. We recommend using specific queries rather than a single all-purpose queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Optimize the request by only requesting data your app requires. We recommend using specific queries rather than a single all-purpose query.
```

> * Always use appropriate `first` or `last` values when requesting connections. Not providing those may default to up to 500 which can increase the requested complexity exponentially.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Always use appropriate `first` or `last` values when requesting connections. Not providing those may default to 500 which can increase the requested complexity exponentially.
```?

Author: Ah, yes - that's true. Some of the newer connection that uses graphql-ruby can set default connection size

> * Use strategies like caching for data that you use often and are unlikely to be updated instead of calling APIs constantly.

Reviewer 2: General tightening:

```suggestion
* Use strategies like caching for data you use often that is unlikely to be updated instead of constantly calling APIs.
```

> * Regulate the rate of your requests for smoother distribution. These can be done by using queues or scheduling API calls in appropriate intervals.

Reviewer 2: Use active voice:

```suggestion
* Regulate the rate of your requests for smoother distribution. You can do this using queues or scheduling API calls in appropriate intervals.
```

> * Use metadata about your app’s API usage, including rate limit status to manage app’s behaviour dynamically.

Reviewer 2: Avoiding "app" + US spelling:

```suggestion
* Use metadata about your API usage, including rate limit status to manage the behavior dynamically.
```

> * Think of rate limiting while designing your client application. Be mindful of retries, errors, loops and the frequency of API calls.

Reviewer 2: Use serial comma:

```suggestion
* Think of rate limiting while designing your client application. Be mindful of retries, errors, loops, and the frequency of API calls.
```

If the query exceeds the limit, the response will return HTTP 200 status code with the following error.

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "Query has complexity of 251503, which exceeds max complexity of 50000"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Time-based rate limit

To ensure optimal performance, an organization can use up to 20,000 actual complexity points within a 5-minute period. By allowing a set number of actual complexity points, you have the flexibility to run queries of different sizes within a 5-minute window.

As a best practice, we recommend utilizing client-side strategies like the following to manage time-based rate limits:

- Caching to lower the number of API calls.
- Queues to schedule API calls.
- Pagination to only request the necessary data.

If an organization exceeds the 20,000 point limit, the response will return HTTP 429 status code with the following error.

```json
{
    "errors": [
        {
            "message": "Your organization has exceeded the limit of 20000 complexity points. Please try again in 187 seconds."
        }
    ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove unnecessary blank line:

```suggestion
```

## Accessing limit details

> ### Check time based limits

Reviewer 2: Typo: Missing dash

```suggestion
### Check-time based limits
```

Reviewer 5: Should the dash for the time-based instead? 😅

```suggestion
### Check time-based limits
```

Reviewer 2: 🤦🏻‍♂️ Yes, thank you!

The rate limit status is available in the following response headers of each GraphQL call:

> `RateLimit-Remaining` — The remaining complexity left within the current time window.  
> `RateLimit-Limit` — The complexity limit for the time window.  
> `RateLimit-Reset` — The number of seconds remaining until a new time window is started and the limits are reset.

Reviewer 2: This is listing values and their descriptions, so it should use list formatting:

```suggestion
- `RateLimit-Remaining` — The remaining complexity left within the current time window.  
- `RateLimit-Limit` — The complexity limit for the time window.  
- `RateLimit-Reset` — The number of seconds remaining until a new time window is started and the limits are reset.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this should call out that you're about to view example values:

```suggestion

For example:

```

```js
RateLimit-Remaining: 20
RateLimit-Limit: 20000
RateLimit-Reset: 120
```

### View query complexity

To include the complexity data in responses, use the `Buildkite-Include-Query-Stats` header in GraphQL requests. This returns the complexity data in the response like the following:

```json
{
  "data" : {
    "organization": {
      "name": "Buildkite"
    }
  },
  "stats" : {
    "requestedComplexity": 1910,
    "actualComplexity": 550
  }
}
```

## Best practices to avoid rate limit errors

Designing your client application with best practices in mind is the simplest way to avoid throttling errors. For example, you can stagger API requests in a queue and do other processing tasks while waiting for the next queued job to run.

> Consider the following best practices when designing you API usage:

Reviewer 2: Typo:

```suggestion
Consider the following best practices when designing your API usage:
```

> - Optimize the request by only requesting data you require. We recommend using specific queries rather than a single all-purpose query.

Reviewer 2: Missing "the":

```suggestion
- Optimize the request by only requesting the data you require. We recommend using specific queries rather than a single all-purpose query.
```
